---
title: "A&A 110: Interdisciplinary Digital Media Studio I"
category: "courses"
excerpt: 2011
year: 2011
header:
  image: /assets/images/curriculum/aa110-banner.jpg
  teaser: /assets/images/curriculum/aa110-banner.jpg
sidebar:
  - title:
    image:
    image_alt:
    text:
gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/student-work/aa110/IMG_4623.jpg
    image_path: assets/images/student-work/aa110/IMG_4623.jpg
    alt: "3D prints by Kristina Avanzato, Bill Waldron, Caroline O'Brien, 2014"
    title: "Work by Kristina Avanzato, Bill Waldron, Caroline O'Brien, 2014"
  - url: /assets/images/student-work/aa110/IMG_4561.JPG
    image_path: assets/images/student-work/aa110/IMG_4561.JPG
    alt: "Installation by Kristina Avanzato, Bill Waldron, Caroline O'Brien, 2014"
    title: "Installation by Kristina Avanzato, Bill Waldron, Caroline O'Brien, 2014"
  - url: /assets/images/student-work/aa110/15798770849_c311ea7513_k.jpg
    image_path: assets/images/student-work/aa110/15798770849_c311ea7513_k.jpg
    alt: "Installation by Jacqueline Friedman and Sarah Niezgoda, 2014"
    title: "Installation by Jacqueline Friedman and Sarah Niezgoda, 2014"
  - url: /assets/images/student-work/aa110/15984772485_63a9b831a1_k.jpg
    image_path: assets/images/student-work/aa110/15984772485_63a9b831a1_k.jpg
    alt: "Final installation preparations by Michael O'Halloran and Quan Edwards, 2014"
    title: "Final installation preparations by Michael O'Halloran and Quan Edwards, 2014"
    
---
## Description:

This course is the first of a series of required courses for the Interdisciplinary Digital Studio (IDS) degree. Students in A&A 110 will gain an interdisciplinary and collaborative foundation through the studio-based exploration of digital media arts and design processes. This course will foster interdisciplinary awareness and diverse perspectives and provide students with a common language with which they can communicate and collaborate with other students in the arts and design disciplines. The course will integrate a variety of methodologies and approaches rather than discipline-specific subject matter and be especially significant to such areas as learning to think critically, learning to engage in critical dialogue, and development of research skills. It will provide an introduction to, and discussion of, the processes of historical thinking and methodology as these pertain to the work and experience of historical and living digital media artists and designers.

Through the completion of studio-based projects encompassing a wide range of digital media, including image production and manipulation, basic interactivity/hypermedia, interface design, 3D modeling, animation, digital fabrication, audio, and video, students will create a portfolio of work that will enable them to make informed and guided choices as to the further focusing of their studies in the digital arts and design. Students will be introduced to various collaborative situations and approaches to be utilized as necessary based on the needs of the project. In the following year, students will build upon the explorations of this course through more focused and rigorous studio work in A&A 210 as well as other relevant courses to the degree.

## Semester:
Fall 2015  
Fall 2014

## Selected student work:

{% include video id="124675897" provider="vimeo" %}

{% include gallery caption="" %}